As soon as one turns to the topic of the "extermination of theJews", one finds that fragments of speeches made by the leading politicalfigures of the Third Reich, in particular, Hitler and Himmler, arefrequently cited as evidence. The rather strong language used with regardto the Jews in certain passages of these speeches is simply taken at facevalue, and, therefore, assumes an importance it really does not deserve.Often such passages are taken out of context, and their significance inrelation to the whole text ignored. That has also been done with spoken andwritten statements the German leaders of the period made on subjects otherthan the Jewish Question.Especially in the case of Hitler, such statements were made largelyin response to the numerous threats to exterminate the German peopleuttered by Allied leaders and Jewish spokesmen. Perhaps the most vociferousof the latter was Theodore Nathan Kaufman. In a book entitled GERMANY MUSTPERISH (1941), he expounded a plan to wipe out the German people bysterilizing German men and women. Even better known is the "MorgenthauPlan". Henry Morgenthau, Secretary of the US Treasury and a personaladvisor to President Roosevelt, thought starvation and economicstrangulation were the best means of getting rid of the German people, andRoosevelt himself endorsed this plan. Nor should one forget that it wasProfessor Friedrich Alexander Lindemann - later Lord Cherwell - who advisedthe plan on which the carpet bombing that annihilated countless Germancivilians was largely based. Finally, the Soviet "expert on internationallaw", A.N. Trainin, set forth a plan aimed at wiping out the German "rulingclass" and intelligentsia. His plan led to the London Charter, the basisfor the "jurisdiction" of the Nuremberg International Military Tribunal,which actually did condemn the German leaders to death and imprisonment.With the exception of Kaufmann's scheme, all these plans were at leastpartially executed. If they were not carried out in full, it was more forpractical than humanitarian reasons.Besides these very concrete extermination plans, which had nocounterpart on the German side, numerous general statements were made alongthe same lines. Only a few of these will be mentioned here.Perhaps the most famous exhortations to murder are those ofStalin's Jewish propagandist Ilya Ehrenburg, who expressed such sentimentsas the following:No longer do we say: "Good morning" or "Good night". In the  morning we say: "Kill a German", and in the evening: "Kill a  German".Books, love, the stars no longer matter. The only thing that  matters is to kill the Germans. To kill them all. To bury them...  For us there is nothing more beautiful than German corpses. "Kill  a German !" -this is what the old mother begs of you. "Kill a  German!" -this is what a child implores. Germans are not human  beings. Germans are biped animals, disgusting creatures, beasts.  Germans are amoebae, soulless microbes, but equipped with  machines, guns, mortars.If you have killed a German, kill another -nothing gladdens us  more than German corpses.That Ehrenburg's exhortations to murder were not without theireffect is well known. What is not well known is that these homicidalmessages were translated into English for the benefit of the onwardmarching "Christian Soldiers".To be sure, his incitements to murder appeared at a time when thewar was at its greatest intensity. But long before the outbreak of warthreats to exterminate the German people were being broadcast around theworld. That is something, by the way, which one ought to take into accountwhen considering the question of "war guilt".As early as January 1934, Vladimir Jabotinsky, the founder ofRevisionist Zionism, declared in the Jewish paper NASHA RETCH: "Our Jewishinterests require the final destruction of Germany; the Germans, each andevery one of them, are a danger to us". Likewise, on May 24, 1934, thepublisher of THE AMERICAN HEBREW, a leading Zionist, reportedly told theAmerican publicist Robert E. Edmondson that Jewry was "going to bring a waron Germany". And on April 16, 1936, the YOUNGSTOWN JEWISH TIMES(Youngstown, Ohio), commented that after the next war there would no longerbe a Germany. It predicted that "on signal from Paris", France and Belgium,as well as the peoples of Czechoslovakia, would be set in motion to attackthe "German colossus", and, in a "deadly pincermovement", sever Prussiafrom Bavaria, thus bringing Germany to extinction. (The only differencebetween this fantasy and the reality of post-war Germany is that the newborders were set elsewhere and the German people are not yet extinct,though they certainly seem to be heading in that direction).  Not longafter this article was published, THE AMERICAN HEBREW, in its issue ofApril 30, 1937, expressed the same idea in a more general way when itstated that Germany deserved to be eliminated from the family of nations.This statement was echoed by the British newspaper THE PEOPLE, which, onSeptember 3, 1939, described the German people as the "mad dog of Europe",and demanded their destruction. On the very same day, Churchill purportedlydeclared in the House of Commons that this war was England's war and itsaim the destruction of Germany, ending his outburst with the paradoxicalbattlecry: "Onward Christian Soldiers!"No German statesman ever spoke of another people in such terms asthe British hate-monger Lord Vansittart used against the Germans whenattempting to justify the terror bombings: "The only good Germans are deadGermans, so let the bombs fall!"Those bombs fell, exactly as intended, on women, children, and oldpeople alike. This is the background against which one must consider theangry statements made by German leaders. Although they have inevitably beenassociated with the "extermination of the Jews", these statements weremostly made in response to a torrent of hatred against the Germangovernment and threats to annihilate the German people that was unleashedeven before the war. "Wie man in den Wald hineinruft, so schallt es heraus"("As ye sow, so shall ye reap"; literally, "As you shout into the woods, soit echoes forth").  What is more, some of the remarks attributed to theGerman leaders are either spurious or have been misrepresented.There is a vast difference between words and deeds. The attrocitiescommitted against Germans before, during, and after the war have beenimpeccably documented. They even received publicity at the time theyoccurred. The same cannot be said of the alleged murder of Jews -especiallysince the most prominent Jews, leaders of the Jewish intellectual elite andpolitical leadership, who would have been the first victims of an actualextermination plan, survived internment in Auschwitz and otherconcentration camps.But enough of these preliminary remarks. We shall now examine therelatively few declarations relating to Germany's supposed ambition to"exterminate the Jews" that come directly from German leaders of the time.As we shall see, their statements were no worse than any made against theGermans by the other side.ADOLF HITLER------------Hitler quotations are usually introduced with the claim that Hitlerannounced his goal of exterminating the Jews by means of lethal gas in MEINKAMPF. To support this claim, one cites the following sentences from hisbook:" Hatte man zu Kriegsbeginn und wahrend des Krieges einmal zwolf   - oder funfzehntausend dieser hebraischen Volksverderber so unter  Giftgas gehalten, wie Hunderttausende unserer allerbesten Arbeiter  aus allen Schichten und Berufen es im Felde erdulden muáten, dann  ware das Millionenopfer der Front nicht vergeblich gewesen. Im  Gegenteil: Zwolftausend Schurken zur rechten Zeit beseitigt,  hatte vielleicht einer Million ordentlicher, fur die Zukunft  wertvoller Deutscher das Leben gerettet. "" If at the beginning of the war and during the war twelve or  fifteen thousand of these Hebrew corruptors of the people had  been held under poision gas, as happened to hundreds of  thousands of our very best German workers in the field, the  sacrifice of millions at the front would not have been in vain.  On the contrary: twelve thousand scoundrels eliminated in time  might have saved the lives of a million real Germans, valuable  for the future. "These statements are found in Chapter 15 of Volume II, which isentitled "The Right of Emergency Defense". Here Hitler was attackinginternational Marxism, in Germany then led primarily by Jews. He was notattacking Jews per se, still less advocating their general destruction.These lines, written in 1925, refer exclusively to a situation that existedat the end of World War I. From them one cannot infer that Hitler had some"general idea" of exterminating, let along gassing, the Jews, as KarlDietrich Bracher, for example, would have us believe. To interpret themobjectively, one must bear in mind that Hitler is referring to the past,and, moreover, is discussing a specific situation. These remarks can beexplained only in terms of Hiter's view of why Germany collapsed at the endof World War I, as well as his own experience of gas warfare (which theEnglish, by the way, initiated). They should be taken as an emotionaloutburst, not as an embryonic plan. Indeed, MEIN KAMPF is for the most partmore propagandistic than programmatic.This passage from Hitler's book recalls the humanitarian sentimentsthat Kurt Tucholsky, a Jew, expressed towards members of the Germanmiddle-class who did not share his peculiar "pacifism":" Moge das Gas in die Spielstuben eurer Kinder schleichen. Mogen  sie langsam umsinken, die Puppchen. Ich wunsche der Frau des  Kirchenrats und des Chefredakteurs und der Mutter des Bildhauers  und der Schwester des Bankiers, daá sie einen bitteren qualvollen  Tod finden, alle zusammen. "" May the gas creep into the play-rooms of your children. They  should drop dead slowly, the little dolls. I'd like to see the  wife of the churchwarden and the editor-in-chief and the mother  of the sculptor and the sister of the banker die a bitter,  excruciating death, all of them, together. "Now, we certainly are not charging that Tucholsky planned orpreached the murder-by-gassing of the German people. Yet it would beinteresting to see how those who accuse Hitler, on the basis of the passagequoted above, of promoting the murder-by-gassing of the Jewish people wouldreact to Tucholsky's far more drastic outburst.The first remarks in which Hitler specifically uses the word"annihilation" ("Vernichtung") and "eradication" ("Ausrottung") in relationto "the Jews" or "Jewry" were made in 1939. They were a reaction to worldJewry's anti-German campaign, which, by that time, had reached a pitch offrenzy, as shown at the beginning of this section. In particular, Hitler'sReichstag speech of January 30, 1939 is often cited. There he declared,inter alia:" Wenn es dem internationalen Finanzjudentum innerhalb und  auáerhalb Europas gelingen sollte, die Volker noch einmal in  einen Weltkrieg zu sturzen, dann wird das Ergebnis nicht die  Bolschewisierung der Erde und damit der Sieg des Judentums sein,  sondern die Vernichtung der judischen Rasse in Europa. "" If international finance-Jewry, inside and outside Europe, should  once again succeed in plunging the nations into a world war, the  result will not be the Bolshevization of the earth, and with that  the victory of Jewry, but rather the annihilation of the Jewish  race in Europe. "Obviously, this statement is nothing more than a response to thewar threats that were constantly being made by influential Zionists. It wasmeant as an admonition to those war-mongers. Heinrich Hartle interpretsthis text as a sign of Hitler's deep committment to peace. He believesHitler did not intend to cause a war in order to annihilate the Jews, butraised the spectre of their annihilation in order to prevent a war. Inusing the word "annihilation", Hitler was only borrowing from thevocabulary of his Zionist foes. Even if one rejects Hartle'sinterpretation, one must not jump to the conclusion that the oppositeinterpretation is correct. As noted above, angry words were part of thevocabulary of the times. The rhetoric of Churchill and Roosevelt was noless vehement.When quoted in context -as they seldom are- these remarks show thatHitler was not really suggesting the physical annihilation of the Jews.This is how he continued his speech:"   Denn die Zeit der propagandistischen Wehrlosigkeit der  nichtjudischen Volker ist zu Ende. Das nationalsozialistische  Deutschland und das faschistische Italien besitzen jene  Einrichtungen, die es gestatten, wenn notwendig, die Welt uber  das Wesen einer Frage aufzuklaren, die vielen Volkern instinktiv  bewuát, nur wissenschaftlich unklar ist.Augenblicklich mag das Judentum in gewissen Staaten seine Hetze  betreiben unter dem Schutz einer dort in seinen Handen  befindlichen Presse, des Films, der Rundfunkpropaganda, der  Theater, der Literatur usw. Wenn es diesem Volk aber noch einmal  gelingen sollte, die Millionenmassen der Volker in einen fur  diese ganzlich sinnlosen und nur judischen Interessen dienenden  Kampf zu hetzen, dann wird sich die Wirksamkeit einer Aufklarung  auáern, der in Deutschland allein schon in wenigen Jahren das  Judentum restlos erlegen ist. ""   For the non-Jewish peoples are no longer without the weapon of  propaganda. Both National Socialist Germany and Fascist Italy  have the equipment necessary to enlighten the world about the  nature of a problem that many nations instinctively recognize,  though they may lack a scientific view of it.For the time being, the Jews may carry on their agitations in  certain states under the cover of the press, cinema, radio,  theatre, literature, etc., which are in their hands. But if the  Jewish nation should once again succeed in goading millions of  people from other nations into a totally senseless war, to serve  only Jewish interests, the efficacy of the kind of enlightenment  that in just a few years utterly defeated the Jews in Germany  will become manifest. "Thus Hitler's threat was that if another world war broke out,Zionism would be politically eliminated -by disclosing to the peoples ofthe world its role in that catastrophe. He started from the premise -andwe may leave aside the question whether rightly or wrongly- that thepreservation of world peace depended largely on the stance of internationalJewry, which did indeed have an extraordinarily strong influence on nearlyall governments.Even after the outbreak of war, Hitler continued to make suchthreats. These, too, are cited in the literature on our topic as "proof" ofhis ambition to exterminate the Jewish people, when, perhaps, they shouldbe viewed in terms of his repeated attempts to bring the western Allies totheir senses.For example, on January 30, 1941, Hitler allegedly threatened that,if another world war broke out, all European Jewry "would be done for" ("imFalle eines neuen Weltkrieges seine Rolle ausgespielt"). Likewise, in aspeech delivered on January 30, 1942, he reportedly declared that the warwould result in the "extermination of Jewry in Europe" ("die Vernichtungdes Judentums in Europa"). And, on February 24, 1942, he is supposed tohave "prophesied" that through this war Aryan man would not beexterminated, but the Jew extirpated ("durch diesen Krieg nicht die arischeMenschheit vernichtet, sondern der Jude ausgerottet"). In other speeches,Hitler made similar untterances, but they are really not worth quoting.None of these remarks are particularly shocking when compared withthe strongly worded statements Allied leaders and influential Zionists madealong the same lines. As I have said, it was then customary to use stronglanguage against one's opponents. In any case, Hitler's "prophesies" aboutthe eradication of the Jews had scarcely been fulfilled at that time, oreven at the end of the war. More importantly, in all of Hitler's speechesand statements one cannot find a single reference to the alleged homidicalrole of the concentration camps, in particular, Auschwitz-Birkenau,purportedly the center of "systematic mass extermination of the Jews".In the final analysis, all the allegations regarding Hitler's"extermination policy" are at odds with a statement he is said to have madetowards the end of the war, on February 13, 1945:" Wenn ich den Krieg gewinne, so mache ich der judischen Herrschaft  in der Welt ein Ende, ich versetze ihr den Todesstoá. Und wenn  ich diesen Krieg verliere, so werden sie dieses Sieges nicht  froh. Denn die Juden werden daruber den Kopf verlieren. Sie  werden ihre Uberheblichkeit bis zu einem solchen Grade steigern,  daá sie selbst die Reaktion herausforden. "" If I win the war, I will put an end to Jewish domination of the  world. I will deal it a death-blow. And if I lose this war, they  will not rejoice in their victory. It will go to their heads.  They will increase their arrogance to such a degree that they  themselves will provoke a reaction. "These remarks are extremely interesting. If the "re-education"literature is to be believed, the Jews in the German sphere of influencehad already been largely exterminated. According to this statement,however, Hitler planned merely to end "Jewish domination of the world"-something quite different from physically destroying the entire race. Thuseven as the war drew to an end, the "extermination of the Jews" could nothave been Hitler's goal. This is also evident from the text of Hitler'sPolitical Testament that was published by the Nuremberg InternationalMilitary Tribunal (Nuremberg Document 3569-PS). Among other things, thisdocument states:" Ich habe aber auch keinen Zweiful daruber gelassen, daá wenn die  Volker Europas wieder nur als Aktienpakete dieser internationalen  Geld- und Finanzverschworer angesehen werden, dann auch jenes  Volk zur Verantwortung gezogen werden wird, das der eigentlich  Schuldige an diesem morderischen Ringen ist: das internationale  Judentum! Ich habe weiter keinen daruber in Unklaren gelassen,  daá dieses Mal nicht nur Millionen Kinder von Europaren der  arischen Volker verhungern werden, nicht nur Millionen  erwachsener Manner den Tod erleiden und nicht nur Hunderttausende  an Frauen und Kindern in der Stadten verbrannt und zu Tode  bombardiert werden durften, ohne daá der eigentlich Schuldige,  wenn auch durch humanere Mittel, seine Schuld zu buáen hat. "" I also made it clear that, if the nations of Europe were again to  be regarded merely as shares to be bought and sold by these  international conspirators of money and finance, then that nation  which is the real guitly part in this murderous struggle  - international Jewry - would be called to account. Moreover, I  made it clear to everybody that this time not only would millions  of children in the European Aryan nations starve to death, not  only would millions of grown men meet their death, and not only  would millions of women and children be burnt and bombed to death  in the cities, but the real culprit would have to pay for his  guilt as well, even though by more human means than war. "Two things are worth noting here. First, even shortly before hisdeath Hitler apparently knew nothing about a mass extermination of Jews in"death camps", for otherwise he would have worded his Political Testamentdifferently. Second, if Hitler aimed at exterminating the Jews and this hadactually been accomplished, it would have been characteristic of him toboast triumphantly of the accomplishment. But he only says that the "realguilty party in this murderous struggle", "international Jewry" -but not"the Jews" as such- would have to pay for its guilt, "even though by morehumane means than war". Thus Hitler was not reffering to any possibility ofphysically eliminating the Jewish people, but anticipating that the Jewishleader-stratum would receive some kind of punishment, which, in his ownwords, would be more "humane" than the slaughter of European soldiers andcivilians in the war. His remarks could apply to the period after thevictory for which he may still have entertained some hope. If so, it shouldbe understood as a warning to the Jewish leaders and an assignment for hissuccessors.HEINRICH HIMMLER----------------After Hitler's speeches, it is mainly the speeches of Himmler inwhich one seeks to find circumstantial evidence for the alleged raciallymotivated murder of the Jews. Speeches and excerpts of speeches of hissupposedly relating to this subject have been published with a commentaryby Agnes F. Peterson and Bradley F. Smith under the rather sensationaltitle HEINRICH HIMMLER: GEHEIMREDEN 1933 BIS 1945. Of course, it is absurdto call a speech delivered before a relatively large audience "secret". Noris it known whether Himmler ever designated any of his speeches so.Evidently the title was chosen in the hope of selling more copies of thebook.According to the "Remarks on the Edition" at the end of the bookthese speeches were discovered in the files of the "Personal Staff of theReichsfuhrer-SS", which the Americans seized as war booty. Today they arereportedly in the Bundesarchiv in Coblenz. Before they were returned, theywere microfilmed. Whether they are entirely genuine is open to question.Himmler was in the habit of formulating his speeches as he wentalong, using notes that he had written down himself, which often consistedof no more than a dozen phrases. According to Peterson and Smith, there areonly four or five completely prepared texts among the documents publishedin their collection, but they do not specifiy which one. From the end of1942, Himmler's speeches were frequently -though not always-phonographically recorded with two machines. These devices are said to haveworked poorly, leaving big gaps in the recordings. Beginning in 1943,SS-Untersturmfuhrer Werner Alfred Venn was solely responsible for makingand keeping the transcripts of Himmler's speeches. It is not clear just whohad this duty before. Venn is supposed to have taken down and typed out thespeeches - even making "corrections" (!) in the text, but changing themeaning "barely or not at all".One can well imagine the possibilities for error involved in thepreparation of these "documents". What is more, the American officials who"evaluated" the staff files of the Reichsfuhrer-SS had ample opportunitiesto manipulate the papers, and probably took advantage of them, for some ofHimmler's speeches were presented in evidence at the Nuremberg IMT trial.Peterson and Smith claim that Venn sent his transcripts of thespeeches to Himmler, who then revised them slightly. Nobody asks whetherthis would have made any sense. If these were "secret speeches", there waslittle possibility of their ever being published. Moreover, it is doubtfulwhether Himmler had the time to go over his speeches carefully. Since theyhad already been delivered, that must have seemed a useless undertaking.How Peterson and Smith discovered these intimate details is a mystery.There is considerable doubt as to whether the versions of thespeeches that were presented to a horrified world after the fall of theThird Reich were identical with speeches Himmler may have actually havedelivered. Nevertheless, we are bound to discuss here those passages whichare cited in support of the extermination thesis. Although they areconstantly used to "substantiate" the charge that murders-by-gassingocurred at Auschwitz, they contain no mention of Auschwitz or any otheralleged "extermination camp".Most frequently cited is an address Himmler delivered on October 4,1943 before a gathering of SS-Gruppenfuhrer at Posen. Though basically asurvey of the situation at the beginning of the fifth year of the war, itcontains a discussion -relatively brief- of "The Clearing out of the Jews"("Die Judenevakuierung"). At any rate, that is the heading this passage ofthe transcript was given when it was presented in evidence at the NurembergIMT trial (Nuremberg Document 1919-PS). According to this document, Himmlerdeclared:"I also want to talk to you, quite frankly, on a very grave  matter. Among ourselves it should be mentioned quite frankly, and  yet we will never speak of it publicly ... I mean the clearing  out of the Jews, the extermination of the Jewish race. It's one  of those things it is easy to talk about - "The Jewish race is  being exterminated", says one party member, "that's quite clear,  it's in our program - elimination of the Jews, and we're doing  it, exterminating them".  And then they come, 80 million worthy  Germans, and each one has his decent Jew. Of course the others  are vermin, but this one is an A-1 Jew. Not one of all those who  talk this way has witnessed it, not one of them has been through  it. Most of you know what it means when 100 corpses are lying  side by side, or 500 or 1000. To have stuck it out and at the  same time - apart from exceptions caused by human weakness - to  have remained decent fellows, that is what has made us hard. This  is a page of glory in our history which has never been written  and is never to be written, for we know how difficult we should  have made it ourselves if - with the bombing raids, the burdens  and the deprivations of war - we still had Jews today in every  town as secret saboteurs, agitators and trouble-mongers. We would  now probably have reached the 1916/17 stage when the Jews were  still in the German national body. We have taken their wealth from them. I have issued a strict  order, which SS-Obergruppfuhrer Pohl has carried out, that this  wealth should, as a matter of course, be handed over to the Reich  without reserve. We have taken none of it for ourselves.  Individual men who have lapsed will be punished in accordance  with an order I issued at the beginning, which gave this warning;  Whoever takes so much as a mark of it, is a dead man. A number of  SS men - there are not very many of them - have fallen short, and  they will die, without mercy. We had the moral right, we had the  duty to our people, to destroy this people which wanted to  destroy us. But we have not the right to enrich ourselves with so  much as a fur, a watch, a mark, or a cigarette or anything else.  Because we have exterminated a bacterium we do not want, in the  end, to be infected by the bacterium and die of it. I will not  see so much as a small area of the sepsis appear here or gain a  foothold. Wherever it may form, we will cauterize it. Altogether,  however, we can say that we have fulfilled this most difficult  duty for the love of our people. And our spirit, our soul, our  character has not suffered injury from it. "All of this may come as a shock to the unbiased but uninitiatedreader, who might get the impression that Himmler was actually talkingabout ideologically motivated, systematic murder of Jews. But those who areacquainted with the facts of this period in history will find it difficultto believe that Himmler made all these remarks, some of which are utterlynonsensical. A fair guess is that certain passages necessary to thecontinuity of the document are missing, for no logical connection reallyexists between the things Himmler purportedly discussed in this speech. Heseems to be talking about several different matters, viz., the evacuationof the Jews, the efforts of the Einsatzgruppen to combat guerilla warfare,the suppression of Jewish mutinies in Sobibor, Treblinka (autumn 1943),and, most especially, the Warsaw Ghetto (April-May 1943). That Himmler isnot referring to large-scale, systematic murder of the Jews -even when heis apparently discussing executions- is evident from the comparativelysmall number of "corpses" he mentions: 100, 500 or 1,000. Far greaternumbers of people are usually said to have perished in the "gas chambers"at any one time.Let us examine some details of Himmler's alleged statements whichnot only indicate that the passage quoted above is incomplete, but also addto the suspicion that it may be forged.Above all, it is astonishing that Himmler should have had no qualmsabout defining "evacuation of the Jews" as "extermination of the Jewishpeople". Of course, one may claim that he was simply employing the"code-words" purportedly used by functionaires involved in the"extermination program", but, as we have noted, there is no proof that sucha jargon existed. The audience for this speech was definitely not composedof those SS leaders who might have been involved in the "secretextermination of the Jews" -assuming for a moment there was such a plan. Ifthey had been, Himmler surely would have commented in greater detail onthis subject, instead of limiting himself to generalities. All thingsconsidered, it is quite improbable that he would have suddenly confronted anunprepared audience with the "real" meaning of the term "evacuation of theJews". If the "extermination of the Jews" were, as is usually claimed, sohighly secret that Hitler personally communicated to Himmler the order tocarry it out, would Himmler have discussed this matter before a largeassembly of men who had little or nothing to do with it?  Here one recallsthat it is frequently alleged, on the basis of statements made by RudolfHoss, that Himmler personally transmitted Hitler's "secret order" for the"extermination of the Jews" to Hoss, the commandant of Auschwitz,instructing him to keep absolutely silent about it. If this were so,Himmler would not have enlarged the circle of initiates to any greatextent, even without going into details. Hence this portion of the speechcannot be authentic.It seems strange, too, that Himmler should allude to the"elimination" ("Ausrottung") of the Jews as being contained in the partyprogram of the NSDAP, since it is neither mentioned nor implied there.Himmler's supposed claim to the contrary, no level-headed Party Comradewould never have seriously advocated such a thing. That Himmler utteredthis nonsense in front of high-ranking SS leaders, who were perfectlyfamiliar with the NSDAP program, is virtually impossible. Somebody who hadnot the faintest inkling of the actual contents of the NSDAP program musthave slipped these remarks into the speech.Just as incongruous is the statement in the second paragraph of theaddress: "We had the moral right, we had the duty to our people, to destroythis people which wanted to destroy us" ("Wir hatten das moralische Recht,wir hatten die Pflicht gegenuber unserem Volk, dieses Volk, das unsumbringen wollte, umzubringen").  Himmler allegedly said this whendiscussing the confiscation of the evacuated Jews' wealth. In that context,it stands out as a foreign body. Since the Jews still residing in Germanyand German-occupied territory were -considering that a war was going on-undoubtedly a security risk, as Himmler pointed out, their evacuation andinternment in camps or ghettos was perhaps necessary, but not their murder,which is what the word "umbringen" ("destroy", "kill") denotes. It may beargued that the Jews were quarantined out of racial hatred, not for anylogical reason. But that would not explain why Himmler had no reservationsabout discussing an "extermination plan" when the official line was thatJews were simply being "evacuated" eastwards. To say that this was, afterall, a "secret speech" is to beg the question.Quite possibly, the words "Ausrottung" (which can mean either"extermination or "uprooting") and "umbringen" (which can mean either"destroy" or kill") were mistranslated -deliberately or accidentally- inthe passage of the speech that appears in English under the heading "TheClearing Out of the Jews" (see above) if indeed Himmler used these words.Deliberate mistranslations are nothing new. When President Roosevelt, whosaw the mutual defense pact between Germany and Japan as the "back door"through which an unwilling American people could be herded into theEuropean conflict, was zealously attempting to provoke a war with Japan, aU.S. government agency deliberately mistranslated a Japanese officialdocument. Thanks to Professor Rassinier, we know that distortedtranslations were employed in the Nurember IMT trial. For example, in aretroversion of the English translation of the "Wannsee Protocol" thephrase "Zuruckdrangung der Juden" ("pushing back the Jews", ie., to theEast European countries from whence they came to Germany) was rendered as"Vernichtung" ("extermination"). To give another instance, the AmericanChief Prosecutor cited a translation in which the expression "Ausrottungdes Judentums" ("eradication of Jewry" or "Judaism") was made into"extermination of the Jews" -which, of course, is something altogetherdifferent. For as Rassinier has pointed out, Jewry is, among other things,an idea, or, to put it in other words, an expression of a common mentality,just as is Christianity (or Christendom). When one speaks of eradicating anidea, that does not necessarily mean physically exterminating the bearersof that idea, in this case, individual Jews. At least, one should not jumpto that conclusion. Rassinier maintains that in this speech of Himmlers'sthe term "Ausrottung" is used not in the sense of "extermination", butrather "exclusion", or "elimination of the influence", of the Jews.Be that as it may, Nuremberg Document 1919-PS must be consideredhighly suspect, especially the part of it quoted above. It contains so manymuddled, incongruous, and utterly nonsensical remarks that even in thepost-war "re-education" literature it is usually cited only by thesentence. In their collection of "secret speeches", Peterson and Smith makeonly a brief mention of this address. Instead of reproducing it, they givethe full text of another of Himmler's speeches, delivered two days later,on October 6, 1943, before a meeting of Reichsleiter and Gauleiter inPosen. It also contains a discussion of the "Jewish Question", whichPeterson and Smith describe as the "most open and characteristic passage onthe extermination of the Jews". In point of fact, the train of thought ismuch the same as in Nuremberg Document 1919-PS, though this speech issomewhat better organized than the earlier one and lacks its crassabsurdities. According to this text, Himmler made the following remarks onthe "Jewish Question":"   In this connection, I may comment before this very tightly knit  group on a matter which you, my Party Comrades, all take for  granted, and which is the most difficult task I have ever faced  in my life, the Jewish problem. All of you gladly take it for  granted that there are no longer any Jews in your administrative  districts. All Germans - with a few individual exceptions - are  aware that we could not have endured the bombings, the hardships  of the fourth year of the war, and could not endure fifth and  sixth years of war that are perhaps yet to come, if we still had  this demoralizing pest in our national body. "The Jews must be  eradicated". This brief sentence is easily said. But for the man  who must carry out what it calls for, it is the gravest and  hardest thing in existence. Now, look, after all they're Jews,  only Jews. That's plain enough. But just think about how many  people - including Party comrades - have addressed to me and  other officials those famous petitions of theirs in which they  say: The Jews are all bastards, of course, but so-and-so is a  good Jew and should be left alone. I daresay, judging by the  number of such appeals and the number of people who express such  opinions, the number of "good Jews" in Germany must have exceeded  the total Jewish population!  In Germany we have millions and  millions of people who each have their "one good Jew". I mention  this only because you can see in the vital field of your own  administrative districts how many respected and upright National  Socialists have their "good Jew".I ask you assembled here pay attention to what I have to say,  but not repeat it. The question came up: Well, what about the  women and children?  - I came to a determinedly simple conclusion  about that, too. I did not believe that I had the right to wipe  out the men - rather I should say, kill them or have them killed  - and let their children grow up to avenge themselves on our sons  and grandsons. The hard decision to wipe this people off the face  of the earth had to be made. For us, the organization that had to  carry out this task, it was the most difficult one we ever had.  But it was accomplished, and without - I believe I can say - our  men and their leaders suffering any mental or spiritual damage.  That was clearly a danger. To become too brutal, too heartless,  and lose respect for human life, or to be too soft and bring  oneself to the point of a nervous breakdown - the path between  these two ever-present possibilities is incredibly narrow, the  course between Scylla and Charybdis.We have turned over to the Reich Ministry of Economics all the  wealth we confiscated from the Jews - the sums were staggering -  right down to very last penny. I have always maintained: We have  a duty to our people, to our race, we have a duty to a leader  such as has been given to our people only once in 2,000 years,  not to be pretty here, but to go the limit, as we must do in all  things if we are to win the war. Yet we do not have the right to  take even one penny of the wealth confiscated from the Jews. At  the outset, I laid down the line: Any SS men who take so much as  a mark of it are as good as dead. In the past few days, I've had  to sign a number of death sentences - I might as well say it,  there were about a dozen. One has to be strict here, or everyone  will suffer. I considered in my duty to speak very openly to you  - the highest bearers of the will, the highest dignitaries, of  the Party, of this political order, of this political instrument  of the Fuhrer - about this matter and to give the facts as they  are. By the end of the year, the Jewish problem in the lands we  have occupied will be solved. There will be left only remnants,  individual Jews who are in hiding. The problem of Jews who are  partners in mixed marriages and the problem of half-Jews will, in  accordance with this policy, be rationally examined, decided  upon, and resolved.Believe me, I've had lots of trouble with many units of the  economic apparatus. I cleared out big Jewish ghettos in the lines  of communication areas. In Warsaw, we had four weeks of  street-fighting in the ghetto. Four weeks!  We had to clean out  around 700 bunkers. The whole ghetto was making fur coats,  dresses, and the like. Time was, if you tried to lay a hand on  that place, you'd be told: Stop! You're interfering with the war  effort. Stop! This is part of the armaments industry. - Of  course, Party Comrade Speer had nothing to do with that. There is  nothing you people can do about it. It is a part of the so-called  armaments industry that Comrade Speer and I will be cleaning up  in the forthcoming weeks and months. We will do this quite  unsentimentally, as all things must be done in the fifth year of  the war, without sentiment but with a stout heart for Germany.With this I'll wind up my discussion of the Jewish problem. You  now have the necessary information, and you will keep it to  yourselves. At some much later date, one may consider the  possibility of telling the German people a little more. I believe  that it is better that we all bear this together for our people,  as we have done, and take the responsibility on ourselves (the  responsibility for a deed, not just for an idea) and take this  secret with us to our graves. "The "re-education" scribblers are fond on quoting this speech. Incontrast to them, I have reproduced this passage in its entirety, so thatHimmler's remarks can be seen in context. Even if it seems more polishedthan the Posen address, and, above all, does not contain as many glaringabsurdities, this speech cannot be judged in any different terms. It isquite improbable that Himmler would have used such remarks to informReichsleiter and Gauleiter of the genocide supposedly carried out by the SSon his orders.No doubt the first and third paragraphs of this excerpt concern theevacuation of the Jews from Germany and the occupied Western Europeancountries. This is especially true of the last part of the third paragraph(after the dashes), which, incidentally, contains an echo of the "WannseeProtocol" in its approach to the problem of mixed marriages and persons ofmixed parentage. Since Himmler mentions "remnants" who are "in hiding", hecan only be referring here to the evacuation of the Jews from Germany andthe occupied European countries. He could not be referring to thesubsequent fate of Jews evacuated to the eastern ghettos and concentrationcamps, for there they would find no place to "hide". The sentence "The Jewsmust be eradicated" ("Die Juden mussen ausgerottet werden"), in the firstparagraph, is an absurdity, and was probably forged into the text. Inasmuchas nobody in Germany had at that time heard anything about the "eradicationof the Jews", Himmler would have had to provide these high-ranking nationaland regional administrators with some explanation of the term. Otherwise,these men, who were acknowledged leaders of the Party, would have beenpuzzled by it. In fact, if Himmler had discussed such a thing as killingoff the Jews, he would most likely have chosen a word like "elimination"rather than "eradication".When I asked two former Gauleiter, Karl Wahl and Rudolf Jordan,whether they had ever heard something from Himmler, directly or indirectly,about "this type of solution to the Jewish Question" (as I put it to Wahl)or something about the "mass murder of the Jewish people" (as I put it toJordan), neither of them could recall anything. And neither of them couldremember specific details of the meeting at Posen on October 6, 1943.Gauleiter Wahl believes it is possible that he missed the conferencebecause of illness. He told me: "In 17 long years" - that is how long Wahlserved as Gauleiter - "I never heard him say anything that was not humaneor moral ... I cannot conceive of Himmler's being so stupid as to make anysuch remarks, or, if he did, which I do not believe, to preserve them sothat these literary shysters could publish them 30 years later".  This lastpoint is remarkably well taken. It casts doubt on the authenticity ofHimmler's alleged discourse on the "Jewish Question", especially the finalparagraph of it. For how can any rational person believe that Himmler wouldhave had his remarks written down for posterity if he wanted to take the"secret" of the "Final Solution" with him to the grave, and advised hislisteners to do the same?  The real author of these lines must havebelieved - and it seems with good reason - that the human race is awfullygullible.Gauleiter Jordan told me that during the war he heard "someexecutions took place in connection with tactical problems of combatingguerilla warfare", but these had nothing to do with the so-called FinalSolution; they were "necessary wartime measures". I brought up thisinterpretation when discussing Himmler's address of October 4, 1943 to theSS-Gruppenfuhrer, and I think the second paragraph indisputably confirmsit. As I have pointed out, the second paragraph of the excerpt has nodiscernible relation to the first paragraph. Some of Himmler's laterspeeches clarify and corroborate the fact thatthis reference must be toexecutions carried out against partisans.Even if Wahl and Jordan did not attend the meeting at which Himmlerdelivered this talk, they no doubt would have heard, in some way or other,of his remarks on the "Jewish problem" had he actually made them. Theirstatements on this subject are therefore very pertinent. In my estimation,they are satisfactory proof that Himmler did not express the notionsattributed to him in the present version of the speech of October 6, 1943.It would be a cheap shot to impugn the veracity of these two contemporarywitnesses because of their former rank in the NSDAP - particularly sinceHimmler, as I already pointed out, would have had no reason to discuss the"Final Solution" with outsiders like Wahl and Jordan.EOF
