The most powerful and the most perfect expression of thought and feeling
through the medium of oral language must be traced to the mastery of
words. Nothing is better suited to lead speakers and readers of English
into an easy control of this language than the command of the phrase that
perfectly expresses the thought. Every speaker's aim is to be heard and
understood. A clear, crisp articulation holds an audience as by the spell
of some irresistible power. The choice word, the correct phrase, are
instruments that may reach the heart, and awake the soul if they fall upon
the ear in melodious cadence; but if the utterance be harsh and discordant
they fail to interest, fall upon deaf ears, and are as barren as seed sown
on fallow ground. In language, nothing conduces so emphatically to the
harmony of sounds as perfect phrasing--that is, the emphasizing of the
relation of clause to clause, and of sentence to sentence by the
systematic grouping of words. The phrase consists usually of a few words
which denote a single idea that forms a separate part of a sentence. In
this respect it differs from the clause, which is a short sentence that
forms a distinct part of a composition, paragraph, or discourse. Correct
phrasing is regulated by rests, such rests as do not break the continuity
of a thought or the progress of the sense.

GRENVILLE KLEISER, who has devoted years of his diligent life to imparting
the art of correct expression in speech and writing, has provided many
aids for those who would know not merely what to say, but how to say it.
He has taught also what the great HOLMES taught, that language is a temple
in which the human soul is enshrined, and that it grows out of life--out
of its joys and its sorrows, its burdens and its necessities. To him, as
well as to the writer, the deep strong voice of man and the low sweet
voice of woman are never heard at finer advantage than in the earnest but
mellow tones of familiar speech. In the present volume Mr. Kleiser
furnishes an additional and an exceptional aid for those who would have a
mint of phrases at their command from which to draw when in need of the
golden mean for expressing thought. Few indeed are the books fitted to-day
for the purpose of imparting this knowledge, yet two centuries ago
phrase-books were esteemed as supplements to the dictionaries, and have
not by any manner of means lost their value. The guide to familiar
quotations, the index to similes, the grammars, the readers, the
machine-made letter-writer of mechanically perfect letters of
congratulation or condolence--none are sententious enough to supply the
need. By the compilation of this praxis, Mr. Kleiser has not only supplied
it, but has furnished a means for the increase of one's vocabulary by
practical methods. There are thousands of persons who may profit by the
systematic study of such a book as this if they will familiarize
themselves with the author's purpose by a careful reading of the
preliminary pages of his book. To speak in public pleasingly and readily
and to read well are accomplishments acquired only after many days, weeks
even, of practise.

Foreigners sometimes reproach us for the asperity and discordance of our
speech, and in general, this reproach is just, for there are many persons
who do scanty justice to the vowel-elements of our language. Although
these elements constitute its music they are continually mistreated. We
flirt with and pirouette around them constantly. If it were not so,
English would be found full of beauty and harmony of sound. Familiar with
the maxim, "Take care of the vowels and the consonants will take care of
themselves,"--a maxim that when put into practise has frequently led to
the breaking-down of vowel values--the writer feels that the common custom
of allowing "the consonants to take care of themselves" is pernicious. It
leads to suppression or to imperfect utterance, and thus produces
indistinct articulation.

The English language is so complex in character that it can scarcely be
learned by rule, and can best be mastered by the study of such idioms and
phrases as are provided in this book; but just as care must be taken to
place every accent or stress on the proper syllable in the pronouncing of
every word it contains, so must the stress or emphasis be placed on the
proper word in every sentence spoken. To read or speak pleasingly one
should resort to constant practise by doing so aloud in private, or
preferably, in the presence of such persons as know good reading when they
hear it and are masters of the melody of sounds. It was Dean Swift's
belief that the common fluency of speech in many men and most women was
due to scarcity of matter and scarcity of words. He claimed that a master
of language possessed a mind full of ideas, and that before speaking, such
a mind paused to select the choice word--the phrase best suited to the
occasion. "Common speakers," he said, "have only one set of ideas, and one
set of words to clothe them in," and these are always ready on the lips.
Because he holds the Dean's view sound to-day, the writer will venture to
warn the readers of this book against a habit that, growing far too common
among us, should be checked, and this is the iteration and reiteration in
conversation of "the battered, stale, and trite" phrases, the like of
which were credited by the worthy Dean to the women   of his time.

Human thought elaborates itself with the progress of intelligence. Speech
is the harvest of thought, and the relation which exists between words and
the mouths that speak them must be carefully observed. Just as nothing is
more beautiful than a word fitly spoken, so nothing is rarer than the use
of a word in its exact meaning. There is a tendency to overwork both words
and phrases that is not restricted to any particular class. The learned
sin in this respect even as do the ignorant, and the practise spreads
until it becomes an epidemic. The epidemic word with us yesterday was
unquestionably "conscription"; several months ago it was "preparedness."
Before then "efficiency" was heard on every side and succeeded in
superseding "vocational teaching," only to be displaced in turn by "life
extension" activities. "Safety-first" had a long run which was brought
almost to abrupt end by "strict accountability," but these are mere
reflections of our cosmopolitan life and activities. There are others that
stand out as indicators of brain-weariness. These are most frequently met
in the work of our novelists.

English authors and journalists are abusing and overworking the word
intrigue to-day. Sir Arthur Quillercouch on page 81 of his book "On the
Art of Writing" uses it: "We are intrigued by the process of manufacture
instead of being wearied by a description of the ready-made article." Mrs.
Sidgwick in "Salt and Savour," page 232, wrote: "But what intrigued her
was Little Mamma's remark at breakfast," From the Parliamentary news, one
learns that "Mr. Harcourt intrigued the House of Commons by his sustained
silence for two years" and that "London is interested in, and not a little
intrigued, by the statement." This use of intrigue in the sense of
"perplex, puzzle, trick, or deceive" dates from 1600. Then it fell into a
state of somnolence, and after an existence of innocuous desuetude lasting
till 1794 it was revived, only to hibernate again until 1894. It owes its
new lease of life to a writer on The Westminster Gazette, a London journal
famous for its competitions in aid of the restoring of the dead meanings
of words.

One is almost exasperated by the repeated use and abuse of the word
"intimate" in a recently published work of fiction, by an author who
aspires to the first rank in his profession. He writes of "the intimate
dimness of the room;" "a fierce intimate whispering;" "a look that was
intimate;" "the noise of the city was intimate," etc. Who has not heard,
"The idea!" "What's the idea?" "Is that the idea?" "Yes, that's the idea,"
with increased inflection at each repetition. And who is without a friend
who at some time or another has not sprung "meticulous" upon him? Another
example is afforded by the endemic use of "of sorts" which struck London
while the writer was in that city a few years ago. Whence it came no one
knew, but it was heard on every side. "She was a woman of sorts;" "he is a
Tory of sorts;" "he had a religion of sorts;" "he was a critic of sorts."
While it originally meant "of different or various kinds," as hats of
sorts; offices of sorts; cheeses of sorts, etc., it is now used
disparagingly, and implies something of a kind that is not satisfactory,
or of a character that is rather poor. This, as Shakespeare might have
said, is "Sodden business! There's a stewed phrase indeed!" [Footnote:
Troilus and Cressida, act iii, sc. 1.]

The abuse of phrases and the misuse of words rife among us can be checked
by diligent exercises in good English, such as this book provides. These
exercises, in conjunction with others to be found in different volumes by
the same author, will serve to correct careless diction and slovenly
speech, and lead to the art of speaking and writing correctly; for, after
all, accuracy in the use of words is more a matter of habit than of
theory, and once it is acquired it becomes just as easy to speak or to
write good English as bad English. It was Chesterfield's resolution not to
speak a word in conversation which was not the fittest he could recall.
All persons should avoid using words whose meanings they do not know, and
with the correct application of which they are unfamiliar. The best spoken
and the best written English is that which conforms to the language as
used by men and women of culture--a high standard, it is true, but one not
so high that it is unattainable by any earnest student of the English
tongue.

